Left neck and shoulder pain for 2 months
MRI of the cervical spine was obtained with the following sequences: Axial GRE, sagittal T1, T2, and STI
ALIGNMENT: There is straightening of the normal cervical lordosis which may be positional or related to muscular spasm.
DISCS: There is moderate to severe disc space narrowing from C4-5 through C6-7 with prominent prevertebral spondylosis.
CORD: Spinal cord is normal in caliber and signal intensity. Cerebellar tonsils are normally located.
BONE MARROW: No destructive bony lesions. There is low T1 signal intensity within the bone marrow surrounding the left C4-5 facet joint which may be reactive to facet arthropathy.
C2-3: No disc osteophyte complex, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
C3-4: There is a focal 1-2 mm central disc protrusion and mild right uncovertebral joint hypertrophy with deformity of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis. No significant neural foraminal narrowing.
C4-5: There is a diffuse disc osteophyte more prominent on the left and left facet arthropathy with flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate right and moderate to severe left neural foraminal narrowing.
C5-6: There is a diffuse disc osteophyte more prominent on the right and mild bilateral facet joint hypertrophy with flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate to severe right and mild left neural foraminal narrowing.
C6-7: There is a diffuse disc osteophyte which results in flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate to severe bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.
C7-T1: No disc osteophyte complex, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
OTHER FINDINGS: No paraspinal soft tissue mass
Multilevel degenerative disease and facet arthropathy as detailed above, most severe from C4-5 through C6-7.
C6-7 mild spinal canal stenosis with flattening of the ventral thecal sac and moderate to severe bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.
C5-6 mild spinal canal stenosis with flattening of the ventral thecal sac and moderate to severe right and mild left neural foraminal narrowing.
C4-5 mild spinal canal stenosis with flattening of the ventral thecal sac and moderate right and moderate to severe left neural foraminal narrowing. There is left facet arthropathy with surrounding low T1 signal intensity within the bone marrow which is likely reactive
69-year-old female with a history of smoking, asthma and bronchitis now with productive cough intermittently for several months
CT chest without contrast was performed from the thoracic inlet through the upper abdomen using 5 mm contiguous axial slices and 2-D coronal and sagittal reformats
The visualized thyroid gland is unremarkable.
The lungs are hyperinflated.
There are scattered foci of septal thickening and groundglass opacity in the bilateral upper lobes with associated tiny cysts.
There is an additional tiny focus of reticular nodular density in the super segment of the left lower lobe.
The remaining lungs are clear.
There is mild tracheomegaly and bilateral bronchiectasis.
The airways are patent.
There is no adenopathy, effusion or pneumothorax.
There is mild cardiomegaly with calcification of the coronary arteries.
There is moderate atherosclerosis without aneurysm or leak.
The pulmonary arteries are normal in caliber.
There is a moderate hiatal hernia.
There is diffuse diverticulosis.
The remaining visualized upper abdomen is unremarkable.
There is diffuse spondylosis.
There are mild chronic midthoracic compression fractures
Nonspecific patchy ground glass opacification and septal thickening bilateral upper lobes and superior segment of left lower lobe likely infectious or inflammatory in etiology.
Hyperinflation consistent with COPD.
Tracheomegaly and bilateral bronchiectasis.
No adenopathy or effusion.
Mild cardiomegaly, diffuse atherosclerosis.
Diffuse diverticulosis.
Moderate hiatal hernia.
Evaluate persistent right elbow pain. Status post fall.
Axial T2 axial T1 and coronal T1 axial T1 coronal STIR coronal gradient echo sagittal STIR.
FLUID: There is a moderate elbow effusion.
There is no osteochondral defect of the capitellum. There is no intraarticular loose fragment or body.
CARTILAGE: Intact.
LIGAMENTS
Medial: Mild thickening and increased signal could reflect a low-grade ligamentous sprain or this may be degenerative in origin.
Lateral: There is mild proximal thickening as well as increased signal of the lateral ulnar collateral ligament. This could reflect a low-grade ligamentous injury or may also be of a degenerative origin.
TENDONS:
Common extensor origin: There is common extensor tendinosis of a mild degree.
Common flexor origin: Intact.
Anterior: (biceps, brachialis, supinator): No evidence of tendinosis or rupture.
Posterior: (triceps, anconeus): Mild distal triceps tendinosis and peritendinous edema.
NERVES:
Ulnar nerve, cubital tunnel: Mild enlargement and increased signal. No compressive mass.
Radial, median nerve: Intact.
MUSCULATURE: Intact.
BONE MARROW: Evidence of a fracture of the radial head. There is a nondisplaced vertical fracture line in the mid aspect of the radial head with associated marrow edema anteriorly. There is minimal depression of the articular surface anteriorly.
Moderate elbow effusion.
Evidence of a fracture of the radial head. There is a nondisplaced vertical fracture line in the mid aspect of the radial head with associated marrow edema anteriorly. There is minimal depression of the articular surface anteriorly.
Low-grade ligamentous sprains of the medial collateral ligament and lateral ulnar collateral ligament proximally or these alterations could be degenerative in origin.
Mild tendinosis of the common extensor tendon origin.
Mild distal triceps tendinosis and peritendinous edema.
Left medial foot and ankle pain and swelling. Plantar metatarsal pain for 5 weeks. No known trauma
Sagittal T1 and STIR, short axis PD and STIR, long axis PD FS imaging is performed through the left midfoot and forefoot without contrast.
There is diffuse marrow edema throughout the proximal phalanx of the second digit.
There is no definite fracture or cortical disruption identified.
There is mild soft tissue edema and swelling along the plantar aspect of the second toe and second metatarsophalangeal joint.
The Lisfranc joint and ligament are normal.
The metatarsal shafts are normal.
The first metatarsophalangeal joint and hallucal sesamoidal complex appear intact.
The flexor and extensor halluces longus tendons are normal.
There is focal soft tissue edema and thinning and attenuation and findings suggestive of a partial-thickness tear involving the medial aspect of the plantar plate of the second metatarsophalangeal joint with a small joint effusion and mild capsulitis.
The third, fourth and fifth metatarsophalangeal joints are normal.
No significant intermetatarsal bursitis.
No evidence of Morton's neuroma.
The flexor and extensor tendons and musculature of the midfoot appear normal.
There is focal soft tissue edema and swelling along the plantar aspect of the second metatarsophalangeal joint. Findings are suggestive of a partial-thickness tear/sprain involving the medial aspect of the plantar plate of the second metatarsophalangeal joint. There is a small joint effusion with evidence of mild capsulitis.
There is diffuse marrow edema within the proximal phalanx of the second digit. Differential diagnosis includes bone contusion and/or stress related edema. There is no definite fracture identified in this region. Infection seems less likely as an etiology for the marrow edema, recommend clinical correlation with any clinical signs of infection.
Fall from a standing height onto an outstretched arm, assess for new versus old fracture, date of injury DATE, ulnar sided hand pain.
Coronal T2, STIR and 3-D GRE, axial T1 and STIR, sagittal T2 and STIR sequence imaging is performed through the right hand without contrast
There is an intramedullary lesion involving the fifth metacarpal.
The fracture extends approximately 2.4 cm in length with bright T2 and intermediate T1 signal.
There is endosteal scalloping and minimal expansion.
The findings are consistent with an enchondroma.
There appears to be a nondisplaced pathologic fracture through the enchondroma with cortical disruption noted near the junction of the middle and distal thirds of the fifth metacarpal shaft with minimal adjacent periostitis.
Mild tenosynovitis of the fourth and fifth flexor tendon sheaths.
The flexor and extensor tendons are otherwise normal.
The osseous structures of the right hand are otherwise normal.
The musculature of the right hand is normal.
There is an intramedullary lesion of the fifth metacarpal shaft measuring approximately 2.4 cm in length. The appearance is most typical of an enchondroma and radiographic correlation is advised.
There is a nondisplaced transverse fracture involving the fifth metacarpal near the junction of the middle and distal thirds of the metacarpal shaft with minimal adjacent periostitis representing a pathologic fracture. There is adjacent soft tissue edema and this appears to represent an acute injury.
Minimal tenosynovitis fourth and fifth digit flexor tendon sheaths.
Assess right hip and groin pain for one year. This is associated with locking and the pain is sharp in character. History of playing soccer.
None available.
Diluted gadolinium in saline.
After intraarticular injection of diluted gadolinium in saline, axial T1 fat-sat, axial PD fat-sat, coronal T1 fat-sat, sagittal T1 fat-sat, axial oblique PD fat-sat, and coronal bilateral PD fat-sat images were obtained. This was followed by multiple acquisitions in the coronal and sagittal plane sequentially carried out with post processing and color mapping performed in order to obtain a T2 mapping cartigram study.
HIP JOINT/LABRUM: Diluted gadolinium contrast was injected into the patient. There is no distinct evidence of an acetabular labral tear. There is no high-grade chondral loss or delamination along the acetabular margin. The labral morphology is maintained. The ligamentum teres shows borderline thickening. The bony anatomy does not reveal prominent acetabular overhang or retroversion. There is bony prominence of the anterior lateral femoral head and neck region as well as mild lack of femoral head and neck offset. This pattern could suggest, in the appropriate clinical setting, findings that may predispose to femoral acetabular impingement.
MUSCLES AND TENDONS: The gluteal tendons are intact. The hamstring tendon origins are intact.
BONE MARROW: There is no occult or stress fracture or evidence of AVN.
SYMPHYSIS / SI JOINTS: The bony pelvis is intact including the SI joints and symphysis pubis. With respect to the T2 mapping study, sequential coronal and sagittal images obtained with this technique along with graded color image analysis as well as corresponding graphing, do not reveal significant derangement or elevation of the T2 relaxation times that would indicate the presence of early chondral degeneration and collagen fiber breakdown in this patient at this time.
No evidence of acetabular labral tear or detachment. There is no high-grade chondral loss or delamination.
Mild bone alterations along the femoral head and neck region including bony prominence of the anterolateral femoral head and neck region as well as lack of femoral head and neck offset which could predispose, in the correct clinical setting, to changes of femoroacetabular impingement.
No evidence of abnormal elevation of the T2 relaxation times on the T2 mapping study to indicate early chondral degeneration and collage fiber breakdown as discussed above.
Note that the patient had a Ropivacaine pain test carried out; 3 cc of Ropivacaine 0.2% were injected. The patient's pain level was 6/10 prior to injection. There is only minimal diminishment of pain after Ropivacaine injection indicating lack of response to intraarticular Ropivacaine.
Note that the alpha angle in this patient is mildly elevated at 61 degrees. The lateral center edge angle of Wiberg is 26 degrees which is within the range of normal.
36-year-old male, assess chronic left hip pain.
None
Coronal T1 and STIR through the bilateral hips followed by unilateral left hip imaging using axial T1, axial T2 FS, sagittal merge and sagittal T2 imaging.
There is mild to moderate chondral thinning noted along the peripheral margin of the left acetabulum with linear fluid signal extending into the substance of the acetabular labrum within the anterosuperolateral quadrant suspicious for a small focal linear pattern tear.
There is a cam bump noted along the peripheral margin of the left femoral neck.
Small hip effusion present.
No fracture, stress fracture or AVN of the left femoral head and neck.
The adductors and hamstring tendons are normal.
There is mild distal gluteus medius insertional tendinosis.
No evidence of iliopsoas or greater trochanteric bursitis.
There is soft tissue edema within the left quadratus femoris muscle.
There is slight broadening of the right femoral neck with marginal osteophyte formation.
There is moderate right hip osteoarthritis with macerated tear of the acetabular labrum within the anterosuperolateral quadrant of the right hip and a small right hip effusion.
The adductors, hamstring tendons and gluteus musculature are normal.
There is mild soft tissue edema within the quadratus femoris muscle of the right hip.
Visualized osseous pelvis including the pubic symphysis and SI joints are normal.
Findings are suggestive of a cam-type femoral acetabular impingement syndrome of the left hip with a small focal linear pattern tear involving the acetabular labrum within the anterosuperolateral quadrant. There is also mild osteoarthritis of the left hip.
There is no fracture, stress fracture or AVN involving the left femoral head and neck.
The right femoral neck demonstrates slight broadening and this may represent the sequela of a developmental dysplasia of the right hip. There is moderate osteoarthritis and findings suggestive of a mixed cam-pincer type femoral acetabular impingement syndrome with a tear of the acetabular labrum.
There is soft tissue edema within the quadratus femoris muscles bilaterally. This can be seen with ischiofemoral impingement and clinical correlation is advised.
There is mild left gluteus medius insertional tendinosis.
Left medial knee pain and swelling for 2 weeks, injured during football, assess for medial meniscal tear, initial visit.
Axial PD FS, coronal T1 and STIR, sagittal PD and PD FS imaging is performed through the left knee without contrast
FLUID / INTRA-ARTICULAR BODIES: There is a small knee effusion and a small popliteal cyst present. There is circumferential soft tissue edema and swelling at the level the knee most prominent posteriorly.
MENISCI:
Medial: The medial meniscus is normal.
Lateral: The lateral meniscus is normal.
CRUCIATE LIGAMENTS: The anterior cruciate ligament contains mild intrasubstance edema suggestive of a grade 1 sprain but there is no high-grade or full-thickness tear. The PCL is normal.
COLLATERAL LIGAMENTS: The medial collateral ligament is normal. The iliotibial band and fibular collateral ligament are normal. There is grade 1 strain/contusion involving the proximal gastrocnemius muscle and the distal biceps femoris muscle.
EXTENSOR MECHANISM: The patellar and quadricep tendons are normal.
CARTILAGE:
Patellofemoral compartment: The patellofemoral articular surfaces are normal.
Medial tibiofemoral compartment: The medial compartment articular surfaces are normal.
Lateral tibiofemoral compartment: The lateral compartment articular surfaces are normal.
BONE MARROW: There are extensive bone contusions involving the distal femur and proximal tibia. There is a nondisplaced Salter II fracture through the distal femoral growth plate with fluid within the growth plate and extensive adjacent marrow edema and bone contusion within the metaphysis. The metaphyseal component of the fracture is noted along the peripheral margin of the lateral femoral condyle with a large subperiosteal hematoma and uplifting and displacement of the periosteum along the posterolateral aspect of the distal femoral metaphysis. There is extensive bone contusion within the epiphyseal region of the proximal tibia. There is a small linear area of low signal abnormality adjacent to the growth plate posteriorly suggestive of a small incomplete nondisplaced transverse fracture through the posterior metaphyseal region of the proximal tibia seen on image 11 of series 9.
There are extensive bone contusions of the distal femur and proximal tibia. There is a nondisplaced Salter II fracture through the growth plate of the distal femur with the metaphyseal component of the fracture located along the posterior peripheral aspect of the lateral femoral condyle. There is a subperiosteal hematoma with displacement of the periosteum along the posterolateral aspect of the distal femoral metaphysis.
Extensive bone contusion of the proximal tibia with a small incomplete nondisplaced transverse fracture line noted along the posterior margin of the proximal tibial metaphysis.
Small knee effusion and popliteal cyst with posterior soft tissue edema and swelling.
Grade 1 sprain of the anterior cruciate ligament but no high-grade tear or disruption.
Grade 1 strain of the proximal gastrocnemius muscle and distal biceps femoris muscle.
No meniscal tear.
The articular surfaces are well preserved.
Left knee pain. Semimembranosus bursitis.
Left knee ultrasound DATE. Left knee radiographs DATE.
Procedure and benefits were explained to the patient and informed consent was signed.
Time out procedure was performed to verify patient identity, laterality, and procedure.
Sterile preparation with chlorhexidine/alcohol solution was performed.
Lidocaine 1% was used for local anesthesia.
Under ultrasound guidance, a 20-gauge needle was advanced into the semimembranosus bursa of the left knee using a medial approach and position verified with aspiration of 2 mL of viscous clear yellow fluid.
The bursa was flushed twice with anesthetic solution.
Then 40 mg Triamcinolone Acetonide, 1 mL Marcaine 0.25% and 1 mL lidocaine 1% were injected within the bursa.
Hemostasis was achieved with local compression and a sterile Band-Aid was applied.
Patient left the department in good condition with instructions to rest the extremity for a couple of days, use over-the-counter anti-inflammatories if needed and consult with the referring physician if there is increasing pain, swelling or redness.
Patient reports complete resolution of left knee pain after aspiration and injection procedure.
No immediate complications.
Successful ultrasound-guided aspiration and injection of the left knee semimembranosus bursitis using Triamcinolone Acetonide 40 mg and anesthetic.
Low back pain with bilateral lower extremity radiculopathy which is achy and intermittent.
None given.
MRI of the lumbar spine was obtained with the following sequences: Axial T2, sagittal T1, T2, and STIR.
There is a transitional anatomy with lumbarization of what is designated as the S1 vertebral body with an intervertebral disc at S1-S2. Using this counting designation the last well-formed ribs are at T12 and the conus medullaris ends at L1-L2.
There is disc desiccation with moderate disc space narrowing from L1-2 through L5-S1 with prevertebral spondylosis.
There a few small Schmorl's nodes identified.
Vertebral body heights are otherwise well-maintained without compression fracture.
There is no significant bone marrow edema or destructive bony lesions identified.
There is diffuse congenital narrowing of the lumbar spinal canal.
Note is made of a well-circumscribed 1.6 cm T2 hyperintense lesion within the superior pole of the left kidney, most likely representing a renal cyst.
T12-L1: No disc bulge, disc protrusion, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
L1-2: There is a mild diffuse disc bulge which results in mild right subarticular recess narrowing without spinal canal or neural foraminal stenosis.
L2-3: There is a moderate diffuse disc bulge which results in a mild spinal canal stenosis and mild right and mild to moderate left subarticular recess narrowing with encroachment on the descending left L3 nerve root. There is mild bilateral inferior neural foraminal narrowing.
L3-4: There is a moderate diffuse disc bulge and mild facet joint and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy with a mild to moderate spinal canal stenosis and bilateral subarticular recess narrowing with encroachment on the descending bilateral L4 nerve roots. There is mild bilateral inferior neural foraminal narrowing.
L4-5: There is a moderate diffuse disc bulge with osteophytic ridging and mild to moderate facet joint and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy with a mild to moderate spinal canal stenosis and mild bilateral subarticular recess narrowing. There is mild right and mild to moderate left inferior neural foraminal narrowing with subtle contact of the exiting left L4 nerve root by the disc osteophyte.
L5-S1: There is a diffuse disc osteophyte with a broad-based 3 mm right central disc protrusion with annular tearing and mild facet arthropathy and ligamentum flavum thickening with moderate right and mild left subarticular recess narrowing with mass effect on the descending right S1 nerve root, a mild spinal canal stenosis, and mild to moderate bilateral neural foraminal narrowing with contact of the exiting L5 nerve roots by the disc osteophyte. No paraspinal soft tissue mass is identified.
Transitional anatomy with lumbarization of what is designated as the S1 vertebral body. Recommend correlation with plain film imaging for counting purposes prior to any surgical intervention.
Multilevel degenerative disc disease and facet arthropathy throughout the lumbar spine as detailed above with diffuse congenital narrowing of the lumbar spinal canal which contributes to spinal canal stenoses.
L5-S1 moderate right and mild left subarticular recess narrowing with mass effect on the descending right S1 nerve root, a mild spinal canal stenosis, and mild to moderate bilateral neural foraminal narrowing with contact of the exiting L5 nerve roots by the disc osteophyte.
L4-5 mild to moderate spinal canal stenosis, mild bilateral subarticular recess narrowing, and mild right and mild to moderate left inferior neural foraminal narrowing with subtle contact of the left L4 nerve root by a disc osteophyte.
L3-4 mild to moderate spinal canal stenosis and bilateral subarticular recess narrowing with encroachment on the descending bilateral L4 nerve roots and mild bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.
L2-3 mild spinal canal stenosis and mild right and mild to moderate left subarticular recess narrowing with encroachment on the descending left L3 nerve root and mild bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.
Right parotid mass.
Comparison CT head/upper neck dated 1/6/2015.
6 cc of Gadavist administered without complication
Axial, sagittal and coronal T1-weighted, sagittal, axial and coronal fat saturated T2-weighted images were obtained. Following contrast administration, sagittal, axial and coronal T1-weighted sequences were also obtained.
Evaluation of the neck reveals a somewhat heterogeneous but well defined lobulated mass within the superficial lobe of the anterior right parotid gland.
The mass demonstrates a rounded focus of signal prolongation with enhancement.
The mass measures approximately 0.8 x 0.9 x 0.7 CM (anterior-posterior by transverse by superior-inferior).
This appears similar to that noted on the prior CT.
The mass just abuts the retromandibular vein, patent and medial to the right parotid duct.
The mass is most consistent with a benign pleomorphic adenoma.
No left-sided parotid mass is seen.
Right and left submandibular glands are unremarkable.
The mucosal surfaces of the upper aerodigestive tract appear symmetric and unremarkable.
The larynx is intact.
The nasopharynx is symmetric without distinct lesion.
The tongue and tongue base appear symmetric and unremarkable.
The median raphe is midline.
The thyroid gland appears symmetric without distinct nodule.
No pathologically enlarged lymph nodes are found.
The visualized lymph nodes demonstrate no central necrosis or extranodal extension.
The right and left faucial tonsil is symmetric and unremarkable.
The lingual tonsillar tissue appears symmetric and of normal volume.
The posterior nasopharyngeal lymphoid tissue does not appear enlarged.
Evaluation of the paranasal sinuses reveals no significant sinus inflammatory disease.
No air-fluid levels are noted.
The central skull base is intact.
The central petrous temporal bones and mastoids remain clear.
The visualized base of brain appears unremarkable.
Cervical spondylosis is noted, most notable for a broad-based disc bulge and dorsal osteophytic ridge at the C5/6 level with a C6/7 level focal 2 mm central disc protrusion and dorsal osteophytic ridging, resulting in mild central spinal stenosis. Mild foraminal narrowing also evident bilaterally.
The lung apices are clear.
Macroadenoma with no priors available for comparison.
15 cc MultiHance intravenously.
Sagittal T2, axial T2 flair, coronal T2, and post gadolinium axial T1 weighted sequences were obtained through the whole brain.
High-resolution coronal T1 and T2 sagittal T1, post gadolinium coronal dynamic, and post gadolinium coronal and sagittal T1 weighted sequences were obtained through the sella.
There is a large sellar and suprasellar mass with areas of internal cystic change or necrosis within the central and right lateral aspect of the mass.
The mass measures approximately 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm in size (craniocaudal by transverse by AP) with mass effect on the right greater than left optic chiasm and cisternal segment of the right optic nerve.
The pituitary stalk appears to be deviated to the right.
The mass appears to invade into the medial aspect of the left and likely the right cavernous sinuses.
Cavernous carotid flow voids appear normal in caliber bilaterally.
There is associated expansion of the sella.
The brain parenchyma is normal in signal intensity.
The ventricles and sulci are normal in size and position.
There is no abnormal intraparenchymal enhancement.
No evidence of intracranial hemorrhage or midline shift.
No abnormal extraaxial fluid collections.
The orbits are unremarkable in appearance.
There is trace mucosal thickening within the ethmoid sinuses.
Mastoid air cells are clear.
There are no suspicious focal lesions of the bony calvarium or soft tissues of the scalp.
Pituitary mass measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm in size
consistent with patient's clinical history of macroadenoma
with expansion of the sella and suprasellar extension
with mass effect on the right greater than left optic chiasm
and cisternal segment of the right optic nerve
and probable invasion into the medial aspect of the left and likely right cavernous sinuses
with normal caliber cavernous carotid flow voids.
There is cystic change and/or necrosis within the central and right lateral aspect of the mass.
Elevated PSA.
Enlarged prostate.
History of prostate cancer
20 mL of MultiHance was administered per protocol
3T MRI with coronal T2; large FOV axial T2 3-D gradient echo; axial T1 and high-resolution T2, high b-value DWI and ADC sequences; dynamic axial T1 fat-sat post contrast. Multiparametric evaluation was performed on proprietary 3-D fusion software.
Gas within rectum causes the susceptibility artifact on diffusion weighted sequences.
Transitional Zone: Foci of low signal intensity seen in the posterior aspect of the transitional zone at the level of the mid gland towards the apex measuring 0.9 cm on the left and 0.7 cm on the right (series 8 image 9) with associated early enhancement (series 7 image 19) and possible restricted diffusion (series 11 and 10 image 10). Findings may represent neoplastic foci. Biopsy can be performed as clinically indicated.
Peripheral Zone: Low signal intensity foci seen in the posterior aspect of the peripheral zone at the level of the mid gland toward the apex measuring 0.9 cm on the left and 0.9 cm on the right (series 8 image 9) with associated early enhancement (series 17 image 10) and possible restricted diffusion (areas 10 and 11 image 10). Findings are concerning for neoplastic foci. Biopsy can be performed as clinically indicated.
Seminal Vesicles: No low signal intensity focus, restricted diffusion, early enhancement is seen in the seminal vesicles.
Extracapsular Extension: Fat planes along the pseudocapsule of the prostate and neurovascular bundles are preserved.
Pelvis: No lymphadenopathy is seen. No aggressive bony lesions are identified. Moderate to severe cartilage thinning is present in the left hip joint with subchondral cystic changes in acetabulum.
1. Gas within rectum causes susceptibility artifact on diffusion weighted sequences.
2. Enlarged prostate.
3. Foci of low signal intensity and early enhancement and possible restricted diffusion in the posterior aspect of the transitional zone on the left and right at the level of the mid gland may represent neoplastic foci. Biopsy can be performed as clinically indicated.
4. Foci of low signal intensity and early enhancement and possible restricted diffusion in the posterior aspect of the peripheral zone on the left and right at the level of the mid gland may represent neoplastic foci. Biopsy can be performed as clinically indicated.
5. No seminal vesicle or extracapsular extension.
6. No lymphadenopathy or aggressive bony lesions.
7. Moderate to severe cartilage thinning in the left hip joint
Work related injury on September 21, 2015, assess for traumatic tear left rotator cuff with superior shoulder pain and weakness.
Axial PD FS, coronal PD FS and PD, sagittal T1 and PD FS imaging is performed through the left shoulder without contrast.
ROTATOR CUFF: There is mild distal insertional tendinosis with minimal articular sided fraying of the distal aspect of the supraspinatus tendon. There is a 3 mm low-grade longitudinal interstitial tear involving the supraspinatus tendon at the distal attachment site seen on image 12 of series 7. There is no high-grade or fullthickness tear and no retraction. The infraspinatus tendon is normal. There is a longitudinal interstitial tear noted along the superior margin of the subscapularis tendon. No full-thickness tear or retraction noted.
MUSCLES: The cuff musculature demonstrates minimal loss of muscle bulk and minimal grade 1 fatty infiltration of the subscapularis, infraspinatus and teres minor muscles.
BICEPS: There is mild tendinosis of the proximal long head biceps tendon.
SUBACROMIAL / SUBDELTOID BURSA: There is mild bursitis.
ACROMION / AC JOINT: There is marrow edema within the distal clavicle. There is a small AC joint effusion with mild pericapsular edema. No elevation of the distal clavicle and no fracture. The coracoclavicular ligaments are intact. There is a mild type II acromial configuration and minimal lateral downsloping of the acromion. No subacromial spurring.
GLENOHUMERAL JOINT / LABRUM: There is an extensive tear of the superior labrum extending from anterior to posterior with undermining of the long head biceps anchor consistent with a type II SLAP lesion. There is low-grade chondral thinning throughout the glenohumeral joint. No Bankart lesion noted. A small glenohumeral joint effusion is present. There is no intra-articular body.
BONE MARROW: No fracture or malalignment.
There is mild supraspinatus tendinosis with minimal articular sided fraying of the distal tendon and a 3 mm low grade interstitial tear at the distal attachment site.
There is tendinosis and a low-grade longitudinal interstitial tear noted along the superior margin of the subscapularis tendon.
There is a type II SLAP lesion and mild tendinosis of the intra-articular portion of the long head biceps tendon.
Mild subacromial subdeltoid bursitis.
There is marrow edema within the distal clavicle. There is a small AC joint effusion with mild pericapsular edema. This may represent mild stress related change of the AC joint versus a grade 1 sprain of the AC joint. There is no elevation or fracture of the distal clavicle.
There is no occult fracture or bone contusion. No malalignment of the osseous structures.
The age of injury is indeterminate
Dorsal right medial upper back pain for 10 weeks. Evaluate for degenerative disc disease.
MRI of the thoracic spine was obtained on a 3 Tesla magnet with the following sequences: Axial T2, sagittal T1, T2, and STIR.
There is straightening of the normal cervical lordosis on the localizer sequence.
There is a normal thoracic kyphosis.
There is mild disc desiccation from T2-3 through T9-10 with mild prevertebral spondylosis at T2-3.
Vertebral body heights are well-maintained without compression fracture.
There is no bone marrow edema or destructive bony lesions identified.
There is mild diffuse congenital narrowing of the spinal canal.
No paraspinal soft tissue mass.
There is a well-circumscribed 8mm T2 hyperintense lesion within the right hepatic lobe most likely representing a hepatic cyst or hemangioma.
T7-8: There is a focal 3 mm central disc protrusion which results in deformity of the ventral spinal cord and a mild spinal canal stenosis without definite cord signal abnormality. No significant neural foraminal narrowing.
T8-9: There is a focal 2 mm right central disc protrusion which results in mild deformity of the right ventral thecal sac and cord without spinal canal stenosis or neural foraminal narrowing.
T9-10: There is mild left facet hypertrophy without spinal canal or neural foraminal stenosis.
Elsewhere within the thoracic spine, there is no significant posterior disc bulge, disc protrusion, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
8mm well-circumscribed T2 hyperintense lesion within the right hepatic lobe, most likely representing a hepatic cyst or less likely hemangioma. This could be confirmed with abdominal ultrasound.
Assess right wrist pain. Pain is diffuse. Status post fracture of the distal radius status post fall.
None available.
None utilized.
Sagittal T1, sagittal STIR, coronal PD, coronal PD fat-sat, coronal 2-D gradient echo, axial PD fat-sat.
FLUID: Moderate amount of fluid in the radiocarpal and midcarpal wrist compartments.
JOINT ALIGNMENT: Mild dorsal angulation of the distal radius reflective of the fracture.
CARTILAGE: Intact chondral surfaces.
LIGAMENTS
TFCC: Intact central and radial portions. There is edema in the peripheral attachments of the TFCC to the ulnar styloid process.
Scapholunate (SL): Evidence of edema in the central and volar aspect of the ligament. Edema extends into the volar radiocarpal ligaments. The pattern is reflective of a volar injury and partial-thickness tear in this region. There is no complete tear. There is no DISI deformity.
Lunotriquetral (LT): No evidence of a tear.
EXTENSOR TENDONS: Moderate extensor carpi ulnaris tendinosis. There is fluid reflective of tenosynovitis in the second and third extensor compartments as well along the region of the extensor digitorum tendons.
CARPAL TUNNEL: No compressive mass within the carpal tunnel.
GUYON'S CANAL: No compressive mass.
BONE MARROW: Evidence of an occult fracture of the distal radius. There is a transverse fracture line with associated prominent edema. There is mild dorsal angulation.
1. Evidence of edema in the central as well as the volar aspect of the scapholunate ligament. Edema extends into the volar radiocarpal ligaments. The pattern is reflective of a volar injury and partial-thickness tear in this region. There is no complete tear. There is no DISI deformity
2. Evidence of an occult fracture of the distal radius. There is a transverse fracture line with associated edema. There is mild dorsal angulation.
3. Moderate extensor carpi ulnaris tendinosis. There is fluid reflective of tenosynovitis in the second and third extensor compartments as well along the region of the extensor digitorum tendons.
